Several  articles this week suggest that open government policies are living up to their promise, while others like Evgeny Morozov caution that “openness has a lot of sex appeal, but barely any analytical content.” “Sunshine as Disinfectant: The Effect of State Freedom of Information Act Laws on Public Corruption” provides an interesting overview of how FOIA requests have played an important role in mitigating corruption, a success for open government policies. As Harlan Yu’s readings highlighted earlier in the semester, the passage of FOIA laws have been a breakthrough for advocates of a more open and transparent government. To a large extent, FOIA should just be laws starting point of open data policies and practices. Over the coming years, as cities and states move towards implementing open data policies, they should attempt to imitate successful implementations.  Bureaucratic resistance to the provisions of open data policies may be seen at the state and local level (similar to the issues seen at the federal), however, advocates of open government data should strive at least to achieve a minimally viable product (mvp) of policies, regulations, and practices that provide transparency through data. The results of such efforts then should be measured to ensure that the analytical component is not overlooked. 

As Cordis and Warren highlight, FOIA legislation has significantly decreased corruption. In the analysis, the authors use an objective measure to assess corruption: the number of state and local public officials convicted for corrupt acts. These data were reported by the Transaction Records Access Clearinghouse from 1986-2009. The authors found that when states with weak FOIA laws switched to strong FOIA laws, substantial increases in conviction rates for state and local public officials occurs, suggesting that FOIA laws impact conviction or corruption rates. The authors ultimately find that strengthening FOIA laws has two effects: it reduces corruption rates and increases the probability that corrupt acts are detected.

At the federal level, the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) continues to evolve and respond to the changes in technology as it fulfills its objective of providing access to government information through electronic media. In the 113th Congress, Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont introduced S.2520, FOIA Improvement Act of 2014, which aimed to amend FOIA and “enshrine into law the presumption of openness” so that “in the face of doubt, openness prevails.” Although FOIA Improvement Act of 2014 passed in the Senate, it never made to the House in the 113th session. This is a good illustration of how open data regulation must continue to evolve to remain effective. 

 

