	This weeks readings opened the discussion on how government data can be used in an effective and valuable manner. The reading which sparked the biggest reaction for me was The New York Times article, Open and Closed, by Evgeny Morozov. In my opinion, Morozov offered a confusing and oversimplified viewpoint on the topic of open data that attacked the use of open data, when his essay should really have made it clear that open data is not a bad thing, but can be manipulated to support certain negative causes. Morozov opened his essay by discussing a law student’s initiative to produce a printable weapon, and goes on to critique the law student’s use of the term “open data.” Morozv uses this company’s use of the word “openness,” as well as the Church of Scientology’s use of its “commitment to open communication” as examples of how the word open is being used as a promotional tool for initiatives that do not have positive intentions in mind. 
	I believe Morozov is conflating two ideas, first the use of open data, and second, when groups or initiatives who cause harm to society adopt the use of open data to promote their cause. In my opinion, open data will always be a good thing. While I agree that there are major privacy threats and breaches that open data poses, and it is by no means a perfect social initiative, I also agree that the sharing of information and accessibility of information will lead to increased transparency and better decision and policy making. With that aside, I feel like Morozov’s attacks on the Church of Scientology and on the law student’s company are misplaced; his discussion of open data should focus on how there are positive connotations associated with the concept of open data, and companies are adopting the term “open data” to promote their causes, rather than focusing his essay on how open data is not a good thing when it is adopted by organizations or companies with questionable moralities. 
	I find Morozov’s comparison of “open” as the new “green” as further support for my idea that Morozov incorrectly argues that open data is not a good thing when companies use it with repugnant goals in mind. If a company has a mission or goal that has negative effects on society, or a goal Morozv doesn’t agree with, that should not be equated with the idea that their use of “open data” is a bad thing; I think that if there are companies with goals that adversely affect society which adopt open data, it is good for society as a whole, because these companies’ open data will give those who oppose the companies’ missions concrete data they can use to create convincing and well researched arguments against a company they disagree with. Hopefully, the use of open data will allow everyone heightened access and transparency to companies across society, and provide for well-researched debates and critiques of those initiatives that are most harmful for our society. When looking at Morozov’s use of eco-friendly as a marketing tool used to promote a company, my thought is if a company is an eco-friendly company with a morally repugnant mission versus a non eco-friendly company with a morally repugnant mission, it is still better than the company is eco friendly, even if they have a morally repugnant mission. What I am trying to say is that just because “bad” companies adopt concepts like “green initiatives” and “open data” does not mean that open data is bad, it really just means that open data is a concept that can be utilized by anyone, and maybe that is what Morozov should have been arguing in this essay. 
My bottom line is that while I would prefer to see zero companies with repugnant ideologies and missions, if I had to see a company with a distasteful or offensive view, I would prefer they provided open data. I feel it is better for companies, good or bad, to provide a transparent look into their operations. While I think Morozov’s point was that open data is being used to promote negative agendas, I believe he fails to acknowledge that it is better that open data is provided than not at all. 
