The topics of data integrity and preservation raise a number of issues.  The most interesting one to me is related to the web links and citations to Internet sources in Supreme Court opinions.  

The Liptak article starts off with a telling statistic – 49 percent of the hyperlinks in Supreme Court decisions no longer work.  What I find truly shocking in this number is that we are talking about the Supreme Court, the key and highest source of legal precedent in the country.

As Judge Richard Posner notes in his book on “Reflections on Judging,” the Internet is an incredible compendium of data and a potentially invaluable resource for lawyers and judges.  I don’t think we can argue with this statement.  What seems surprising is how little this huge technological development is reflected when it comes to the accuracy of Supreme Court decisions.  The nature of the Internet is that things change constantly, so there naturally can be links to sources that regularly need to be updated.  However, the question arises – does this have to be the case with 49 percent of the hyperlinks in decisions?  There has to be a better way to deal with this issue.  For example, when the Court provides links to its own website, such as in the case of a video that was used in an opinion, there has to be a way that the user does not get an error message when trying to look up the referenced source.  Similarly, when citing recent statistics from the Ohio court system, the Court should be able to provide the source correctly.  Broken links, or more generally, broken paths to sources, may undermine the integrity and authenticity of Court opinions when they cannot verify what the Court based its opinion upon. 

Using hyperlinks in Court opinions also raises questions about what sources can opinions rely upon, i.e., what Internet sources can be regarded as authoritative and reliable.  From this perspective, perhaps there needs to be some kind of agreement whether, as the article also mentions, sources such as About.com are authoritative enough.  Several Internet sources and databases can be updated by any user, which again can undermine what the Court relied upon when drafting its opinion.  A similarly problematic issue is when draft papers, on which the Court relied in its opinion, are updated or finalized, which can mislead readers about the Court’s opinion and reasoning.

As the Liptak piece details, there can be good solutions to these problems such as the Ninth Circuit’s electronic archive of “webcites” or the Perma.cc platform.  Very importantly, these and other initiatives should fix this recurring problem as soon as practicable, because in the meantime every broken link raises questions about the integrity and transparency of Court decisions.
