This week’s articles, focusing on the efficacy of open government data, raise a number of interesting questions.  The main question I tried to find an answer to reading these pieces, such as the one on Boston’s two open data policies, is what should be expected from an open government data policy.  Interestingly, the articles raised some additional questions and provided some aspects of the issue I didn’t necessarily consider as part of this topic in the first place, but I didn’t really get a good answer to the main question.

When it comes to the usefulness of the data, one question I personally find most important is how much data is required?  We often hear comments that want to broaden this circle and encapsulate most government data under the Sun.  The point that often gets lost in this discussion is how much data is necessary?  What data could possibly be necessary to someone or anyone?  One would say that almost any data can be necessary, but that answer loses sight of the fact that collecting, storing, analyzing, and interpreting data all cost money.

I found Tom Lee’s point of “someone is going to have to pay for the collection, organization and distribution of all this data” an important one.  However, in his analysis, he draws the conclusion that the government’s open data initiatives are not much of a threat to the Treasury.  Perhaps it is true as of now – I think the bigger question is where the current process leads us?  Looking at the amount of data that has been made open in recent years, when does the level of open data reach the “unnecessary” or “unrequired” spheres?  

This also relates to the point Morozov raises in his article.  I found his analysis of the term “open” and the changes it has gone through, very interesting.  When one talks about “openness,” or “open” anything, who wouldn’t agree with this?  The same way as “green” has transformed into a preferable and almost “unrefusable” policy buzzword over the years.  However, when it comes to open government, the term that first referred to accountability now means the ease to access government information, the focus of which has shifted significantly from accountability.  Expressing the ambiguous meanings of openness in today’s political dictionary, I found David Cameron’s statement that freedom of information laws are “furring up the arteries of government” an aspect to which non-government, although tax-paying, commentators often give little weight.

