The Morozov article reminded me of our discussion of Kenyan open government data and journalism: just because the government tells you what it's doing wrong, doesn't mean you can do anything about it. Admittedly, beyond that I found the author's thesis hard to understand and the writing pretty muddled. He illustrated that "openness" is a vague concept by describing its flaws in a vague way, and making it hard to understand how he even defined it. His complaint that MOOCs don't let students alter the course themselves, for example, makes no sense. It's possible, however, that this supports his effective point that everything ascribed to openness, however much that includes, is overrated.

The Boston article brought a new frame for the relationship between stakeholders and open data policy by comparing the benefits and drawbacks of legislative standards with those of executive orders, illustrating the positive aspects of the current system that we have favoring the regulatory, even as our thinking may lead us to legislation down the road. The executive order described sounded like it hit most of the major notes we’ve focused on this semester, from useability to security; while the ordinance includes appealing features, it would seem that the executive order is more in tune with the realities of the executive bureaucracy which would manage the developing policy. The strong support for releasing “all” government information might be too much, but the awareness of the values of civic hacking, license-free availability, and APIs helped balance things out.

I’ve noticed that despite a spectrum of ideas and the occasional illuminating disagreement, our class has largely agreed on most of the open government data issues that we came to understand, once challenged to think through them. I think this shows the truth of the Crooked Timber’s characterization of open data as “pre-political,” as despite the differences in political ideals that must exist across the class, our shared values of good government and democracy, and perspectives as lawyers, often lead us to converge towards good decisions. The advocacy of the cheapness of open data production rings slightly hollow based on the debates over resources like PACER that we’ve encountered, and even a bit more so given the distinction between federal and state budgetary realities. At the end of the day though, I agree with Lee that there is probably money to be had for open data and it is usually a wise expenditure. I liked that Lee highlights how unrealistic some expectations are of the effects of open data, though I would disagree that there are no drawbacks to it vis a vis effective government. 

“The hopeful assumption that reality is a comprehensibly deterministic machine; that data are necessarily objective” is the biggest reality that I have learned the truth of during my time working in the field of open government data, and represents one of the biggest fears I have regarding the future of information technology. Lee points to this problem in expectations, but I see it as more of a threat in that it grants those who rely on data a dangerous moral overconfidence and dogmatism; technocracy can be as harmful as it can be beneficial. However, Lee addresses the potential myopathy of viewing open data solely through the lens of the programmer; as lawyers looking at open data, we offer to add our own professional expertise to the diversity or perspectives on open data today.


