A discussion of the preservation of government data could not come at a more opportune time politically; we are currently on our second week of controversy and buzz over Hillary Clinton’s emails as Secretary of State. The question she faces as a public figure revolves around the preservation and control of government data.

UELMA
Ironically, the certification applied to official agency documents has made life a little more difficult for the members of GW’s law journals, as we constantly have to cite check using secured PDFs which confirm for us their accuracy as much as the fact that we’re going to have to find them again in a less reliable format.
The act offers leeway for stewards of data to consider industry best practices in setting standards for data preservation; this flexibility is good as storage technology and its availability improves, but opens the door to the government to pick the lowest common denominators.

Froomkin
Froomkin’s point that much of government data is private data which has been obtained essentially by force has been a central theme, to me, this semester. He has a compelling argument in that data controlled exclusively by the government should be protected by real liability. Where does one stop on a slippery slope towards a legal standard to which the government could be held for care of any function over which it has complete control, and which has analogous private mechanisms? Amending the Privacy Act to enable the actual recovery of damages might help incentivize the government to improve security, but leads to the challenge we’ve grappled with throughout the semester of setting a value for the misuse of data, and even for data itself. His narrative of the right to informational privacy from Whalen’s social interest in informational privacy to the recent exploration by lower courts of specifically-private government data is compelling, though his framing of SCOTUS’ privacy decisions before Whalen seems like a sleight of hand placed after the case.
On top of the ability to provide recompense for breach of government data, I’m reminded of the class discussion in Con Law II soon after DeShaney over a holding protecting police departments from liability over poor judgment in deciding how to allocate protection and resources. My classmates were shocked that the police couldn’t be held to a legal standard of care in their decisions, one step past DeShaney’s situation. We soon realized that a police department under the threat of such legal liability could not operate, and that duties applied to government functions could pose an existential threat to those programs. In the context of open government data, the expansion of government liability for mishandling data could curb the growth of beneficial government data repositories. At the same time, SCOTUS could use the threat of expanded liability to force the reversal of problematic data repositories created by modern government, from NSA data centers to PPACA databases. The constitution’s treatment of government data security offers tools with potentially balancing but also dangerous effects.
This leads into the White House memo’s “asymmetry of power” between citizens who secondarily create data, and government agencies and private entities who store and analyze data, and the problems and opportunities said data creates. The examples of predicting Medicare fraud (almost like crime prediction), and the ability to detect genetic anomalies once sufficient data volume has been reached, highlights the sea change that the gradual march of computational power has brought, almost creeping up on us. My Data Initiatives came as a surprise to me, especially as tax season approaches; it may be that part of opening government data is publicizing that opening.
The section on educational data seemed less in touch with the reality of the modern student than, for example, of the modern patient: the report seems to overestimate the penetration of technology into the average educational experience today. Project Neptune’s hierarchy of data analytic access, even just applying to aggregated public data, represents a big step forward in the creative balancing of analytical need with privacy interest. It was exciting, if also concerning, to see how the mission of addressing citizen concerns about NSA overreach blossomed into a comprehensive report on how government should undertake to craft law around Big Data as its role becomes more important.
