Response 5
	Government Data Breaches by Michael Froomkin distinguishes between government data and private data, and the ramifications of a breach of privacy between them. My response is on his ideas of how to handle government data breaches. First off, I thought his entire essay was a quite different approach to the issues that arise in the discussion surround government data, because while much of what we read about government data is focused in on the best ways of protecting data and what the data can be used for, he is thinking two steps ahead by looking not only at the breaches of data from the public and private side, but also the legal protections that exist and the legal remedies that can be adopted when battling a breach in privacy. 
	My response focuses on Froomkin’s argument about how a breach of privacy of government data gives rise to a constitutional breach. While I found Froomkin’s argument that the government’s duty to safeguard private data is a constitutional right provocative, I thought his ideas about how the Supreme Court would rule on a data issue to be farfetched. Froomkin relies on Justice Rhenquist’s opinion in DeShaney v. Winnebago County Department of Social Services in illustrating a constitutional remedy to a breach in privacy of government data. In this case, which had to do with the government failing to protect child abuse, the Supreme Court held that recovery was not appropriate for a private party because the government did nothing, despite being on notice. In the opinion, Rhenquist listed cases where the government would be liable: “in situations where the government took such full control of the situation that it displaced, and disempowered, the relevant parties.”
	My first issue with Froomkin’s argument is that he completely simplifies Constitutional law. As much as we would all love to believe that the answer to Constitutional issues lie within a sentence of an opinion, those who have struggled with Constitutional law know that this is an extremely complex and difficult subject of law. His statement that the application of Chief Justice’s opinion that discussed government-run prisons or asylums is “at most, a tiny stretch” to apply Rhenquist’s logic to data held by a government,” is also highly amusing and quite unbelievable. His argument that the government’s full control over the data before releasing it is the equivalent of a government’s full control over incarcerated human beings felt like he was writing this paper for a non legal audience who are not familiar with the nuances of constitutional law. I was quite appalled by his efforts to ignore that this comparison was talking about human lives and human information, which would make his “tiny stretch” much more of a “large stretch” to apply Rhenquist’s statement as a remedy to a government breach in data. 
	I believe Froomkin’s intention was to convey how serious a breach in government data would be for our country by discussing how wide of a variety government data is on natural and legal persons, in both scale and scope, and by making an outlandish statement about how their failure to protect data would be a breach of constitutional law. I also believe he wants to stir up public debate about the issue by making claims that would cause the government and the public to be more attentive to how the government deals with data, and weary about any leaks or breaches of privacy that may occur. However, I think his argument is quite the stretch and his failure to describe his reliance of the Rhenquist opinion as a possible approach to securing a constitutional right for a breach of privacy took away from the convincingness factor of the article.  
	In conclusion, while Froomkin’s argument about an available constitutional remedy for a breach in data by the government irritated me, I thought his analyses of federal statutes offered a much more plausible and convincing method of securing rights for those who ever experience a breach in data caused by the government. Aside from his ideas about Constitutional remedies, I think Froomkin’s essay offered a valuable point of discussion for future lawyers in how to direct litigation based on federal statutes when looking to protect people’s rights. Either way, it will be interesting to see how lawyers bring forth cases against the government when a breach of data results, and which methods will be successful. 
