The controversy surrounding open government data seems to originate from one central question: whether open government data is an appendage central to the government maintaining control over its constituents, or whether  it is a democratizing tool benefitting citizens. Admittedly, open government data has the potential to serve consumers in a number of ways. For instance, it can be used to inform policy decisions, develop civic participation, and to enhance government accountability . However, it also has the potential to manipulate consumers and obscure government responsibility.  In his article, Harlan Yu posited that open government data does not make government more open; rather, it allows totalitarian governments to shift their priorities around and mislead the public.  While this may have been true twenty years ago, I believe Yu and Robinson are overly cynical and underestimating the intelligence of America's general public. Since the mid-2000s, computational powers have undergone a democratization, and the ability to decipher and code information is no longer an exclusive power of highly educated computer scientists. In this day and age, there are thousands of iPad applications developed for use by babies and toddlers, and many educational institutions now offer computer programming courses for elementary school-age children. At age twelve, I can even remember coding my own (extremely basic) Xanga and Myspace layouts. I am not trying to equate my shitty layouts to deciphering government data, but rather, I'm trying  to illustrate the fact that there are probably many people that possess the training and experience to do so, and the number of qualified individuals is exponentially growing and getting progressively younger .However, in a non-technologically-democratized society  the government can selectively omit and manipulate data in order to mislead its citizens. Because the government and those in favor of the government have a near-monopoly on access to the internet, the can frame the information in any way the want.  The government has a much wider latitude to manipulate information when society is opaque, at a lower stage of development, and the majority of citizens do not have access to computers. The government's use of "open data" merely reinforces the its total domination over its citizens. To avoid these maleficent uses of government data, Robinson and Yu argue, in Government Data and the Invisible Hand , that the government should separate data from interaction. In other words, their role should be restricted to publishing raw data for private parties to interpret and deliver to consumers. While I generally agree with this sentiment, I worry that this proposal may create greater reliability and consistency problems.  First, private parties, just like the government, have the power to misuse and manipulate data. For instance, special interest groups such as the Aryan Brotherhood and the Westboro Baptist Church could selectively presented published government data on crime statistics or standardized test scores to support their political agendas.  Another potential issue is that private parties could reveal sensitive information  contained in the raw data. For instance, Yu's PACER project makes court records accessible to the public for free. While PACER increases transparency, it is at the cost of revealing sensitive information about the individuals named within the court opinions.  This information can be used to harass, humiliate, or compromise the security and privacy of millions of individuals around the nation.  Finally, whereas responsibility for government misuse of data would be centralized, it would be very difficult to hold the limitless number of private parties accountable for misuse of government data. Once published online, data is nearly permanent.  It is much easier to prevent the publication of sensitive data by pre-screening it and publishing it in once central source than it is to  later redact it after it has been published and circulated by countless actors in the internet community. One potential solution to this problem is government redaction of private information contained within the raw data prior to its publication. However, can you call this data "raw" if the government selectively omitted some of it?
