Reading Froomkin’s article was interesting in light of the drastic changes that have occurred in the world since he published “Government Data Breaches” in June 2009. In his paper, Froomkin states, “To date, however, the primary focus of these efforts in the U.S. has been private breaches. This paper addresses a related problem that, while by no means ignored, has not received the attention it deserves.” Since Froomkin’s paper, we have seen multiple, very public and attention-grabbing data breaches in the public sector. This includes the notorious work of Julian Assange and WikiLeaks. In September 2009, WikiLeaks posted 570,000 paper messages related to the September 11 attacks. Starting in January 2010, Bradley Manning downloaded and released 250,000 State Department diplomatic cables along with multiple other artifacts. In 2013, Edward Snowden released nearly 1.7 “intercepted e-mail and instant-message conversations, some of them hundreds of pages long, and 7,900 documents taken from more than 11,000 online accounts.” (Gellman, Barton; Tate, Julie; Soltani, Ashkan. July 5, 2014. "In NSA-intercepted data, those not targeted far outnumber the foreigners who are". The Washington Post.) 

The release of these documents would definitely be classified as data breaches as “there is a loss or theft of, or other unauthorized access to, data containing sensitive personal information that results in the potential compromise of the confidentiality or integrity of data” (Froomkin, 2009, p. 1025). In addition to the release of American citizen’s personal information through Edward Snowden, the work of Bradley Manning and Julian Assange even included private messages and records for foreign individuals. 

Froomkin’s discussion of the remedies available to the public for data breaches by the public sector was also interesting. It is very unfortunate that the “remedies available to victims of a government data breach are often less than those available to victims of private sector data breaches.” I believe that the public sector should do more to compensate individuals that fall victim to public sector breaches. In Froomkin’s article, he highlights that “Currently, only the Privacy Act offers victims of a federal data breach any reasonable hope of compensation.” Especially bearing in mind that the scope of public sector breaches can be much broader than breaches in the private sector, I believe the remedies for federal data breaches should be greater. As Froomkin explains, many public sector breaches have included everything from name, address, social security numbers, credit/debit card numbers, to very sensitive tax and personal health records. 

To contrast the risks of a public sector data breach, I looked to the report published by the Executive Office of the President on seizing opportunities associated with big data. In this article, the authors state, “The benefits of some of these technologies are tremendous. From finding missing persons to launching complex manhunts” (Executive Office of the President, 2014, p. 30) and also “Big data holds enormous power to make the provision of services more efficient across the entire spectrum of government activity to detect fraud, waste, and abuse at higher rates” (Executive Office of the President, 2014, p. 30). Considering the benefits that can be gained from the public sector holding these large sets of data, I strongly believe that the benefits should eventually be balanced with the risks. If the benefits of big data are saving taxpayers millions of dollars, when a data breach occurs, I believe that the individuals negatively impacted should be compensated in balanced way, where the potential loss of taxpayer’s millions of dollars is on the table. With this mechanism to balance the advantages with the risks, government agencies that store large amount of personal information will be compelled to take greater measures to protect the information they hold.  

Finally, on a completely different note, it was interesting to see that most of the money for Federal Research in “Privacy-Enhancing Technologies” has gone towards “Anonymization techniques” and related initiatives—$34M/year (Executive Office of the President, 2014, p. 55). This is amusing in light of the articles we read last week, where we learned that no one really knows how to truly anonymize data appropriately. 

