In my view, this semester has made two things abundantly clear: (1) efforts to open government data are almost certainly a good idea; and (2) the process itself, which has incredibly broad and potentially disruptive political implications, is easier said than done (whether that is in terms of the actual establishment of open data policies, or getting those policies exactly right). Even after an entire semester of reading and thinking about open government data, the implications of establishing open data policies, the problems and hurdles associated with open government data, and the essential goals of the open government data community, I admit that I am a little overwhelmed by what needs to happen from here. 

That may be why I found the Helbig, et al. piece to be such a welcomed read. While much of the reading on open government data so far has been somewhat abstract, Helbig et al.’s efforts to ground the concept in accessible case studies, through the lens of the information polity approach was enlightening. By looking at actual stakeholders, data resources, information flows, and governance relationships, as discussed in the Helbig et al. piece, I was able to glean a number of important insights. For one thing, the information polity approach acknowledges the diversity of actors and affected parties that have to be considered in the establishment of open data policies. In addition, I felt that the Helbig et al. piece did a fairly good job of discussing the relationship between sources, actors, and the governance structure of open data. This discussion became even clearer when the authors applied the information polity approach to the case studies. For example, a focus on releasing data that are relevant both to agency performance and the public interest makes sense in light of the sheer amount of data that needs to be dealt with and accounted for and, as indicated by Helbig et al., can be a way to realize quick wins in the early years of open government data efforts.

For many of the same reasons, I found the Cordis and Warren piece about the impact of FOIA on government corruption to be particularly interesting. In addition to grounding abstract notions of open government in a real life, the authors’ use of empirical data on political corruption convictions was particularly telling. Not only are abstract notions of open government data theoretically sound, they also appear to be effective means of curbing corruption. According to the Cordis and Warren data, under a “strong FOIA” model, instances of corruption are more likely to be detected and convicted. This conclusion provides important evidence for the benefit of strong open government data policies beyond just the theoretical necessity for open data. To the degree that this evidence can be pointed to in efforts to establish open government data policies, it should have broad national support and may prove to be an effective, if small, motivating force behind the implementation of strong open data legislation.  

I believe this is true despite the Lee’s criticisms in his piece on open government data and politics. I think Lee’s point is well taken: open government data is not a silver bullet. I actually could not agree more and I think it is something that is often overlooked in this discussion. Technology is not going to completely transform human behavior; we obviously still have to contend with the fact that it is human beings who craft laws and it is human beings who will consume and use open government data once it is widely available. Therefore, open data is subject to the same virtues and vices that affect other human endeavors. That said, Lee does not deny that open data may be a concept that should be added to the long list of democratic advances that have been achieved by human beings. On the whole, these things have made our lives more satisfying and more free. And even if government data is destined to get bogged down in the same political strife and political problems that always characterize human endeavors, that alone makes it a worthy pursuit. 
