This week’s readings explored the permanence of government data. The Temple article, in particular, explored the ongoing struggle surrounding not only the preservation of novel legal materials, but also the difficulty in digitalizing years and years of prior documentation. The piece notably cites to an estimation that of the “2 million unique volumes contained in America’s law libraries, only about 15 percent are available in digital form.” In a prior class, Professor Zvenyach opened the door to discussions on why it is that we trust Lexis and Westlaw, and similarly what it is that builds their foundation of credibility. Thus, the LLMC statistic was alarming me, as I (as most law students are) had been living in a world of presumption that the digital resources we use everyday are comprehensive, nearly complete reflections of what is in existence. Such a presumption was likely the joint product of ignorance otherwise and reassurances from others (professors, mentors, librarians, bosses) in the field. While the Temple article was written circa 2013 and within nearly 2 years there has likely been a bit of headway made in digitalization, I would imagine there is still an enormous amount in need of completion. This begs the question as to how much of legal research in the technology era is, in actuality, rife with gaping holes? There very well may case law or laws on the books that we as scholars and lawyers presume does not exist to fill in the gaps in our work, but are actually out there, untapped as resources and points of reference. Temple’s exploration of this issue is logical, even obvious in light of the facts, however up until this point is not something I had necessary given a great deal of thought. Point blank, the research we are confident has exhausted all resources may actually not be complete, more often than we may ever realize. What resonated with me were the remarks on how local law, in particular, has been neglected in the digitalization movement. I found the example drawn by the author about being the one lawyer who may need one obscure local law just for a single instance or client to be powerful. Further, it prompted the inquiry: even in that we do find what it is that we need via computer-based research, do we owe diligence to our clients, ethically, to conduct research with hard copies as well?
 
On the other end of the spectrum is the difficulty assuring access to works in perpetuity. I do support the idea of establishing a freely available and complete digital library of American law. I understand that doing so would be a long and arduous task, requiring countless hours and funding. However, it is a task that needs to be done at some point, and with every year that goes by, it will imaginably become more and more laborious to compile such a database. At the risk of sounding obvious and understating the difficulty of the job, I believe that it needs to be done sooner rather than later, before it becomes unwieldy and nearly impossible. Also plagued by questions of perpetuity are the issues of disappearing hyperlinks. The answer to such issue, for now, seems to lay in the use of external platforms. Liptak makes mention of Perma.cc, a platform built and run by various law libraries. Allowing writers and editors to immortalize transient information on the Web through the creation of permanent links is a huge step in the right direction. However, the future use of such platforms is contingent on continued participation and funding on their end, which is not guaranteed. All in all, the permanence of government data seems to be unknown. The millions of links, article, pdfs, etc that we presume will be available indefinitely quite simply may not, unless a more organized and permanent organizational system is put in place, backed by federal manpower and funding.
