Both Morozov and Lee offered refreshing perspectives on the utility of open data, stating that, despite the numerous benefits of open data, "openness"  is a dangerously ambiguous term that warrants heightened scrutiny. In his editorial, Morozov suggested that the term "openness" has allowed governments to extend false promises of collaboration and democratic empowerment to their constituents, while still retaining full decision-making powers. Open data has been lauded as novel and game-changing, but Lee state's that this conception of open data is "not only making us look foolish, but is beginning to produce a sense of disappointed malaise." In support of this position, Lee cites Helbig's report discussing the consequence of open data laws on political corruption.  Although the report provided empirical evidence demonstrating that open record laws have reduced political corruption, Lee concludes that open data laws produced better oversight, but did very little to solve the root problem of corruption. Even more so, in Sunshine as a Disinfectant, Cordis states that increased transparency of open data laws relating to corruption may have the unintended consequence of  providing better information to outsiders about whom to bribe.
Lee also is skeptical about the commercial potential of open data,  stating that the wide availability of open data may lead to it being taken for-granted. If  business rivals each have open access to the same data, it may be difficult to repurpose the data into an original, profitable product.  As Cordis states, "by cutting the price of data to zero, it undermines the power of those who previously controlled access to it." Conversely, the commercialization of open government data may lead to monopolization of information, such as LexisNexis and Westlaw.   
As I was reading about NYC Restaurant Scrutinizer, the application that provides restaurant inspection data, I found it ironic that the application was available for a fee on iTunes. This superficial use of open data seems so distant from the notion of open data as a tool for empowerment, transparency, and political participation. Although NYC Restaurant Scrutinizer allows users  to make informed choices on which Chinese takeout spot to order from , it has very little value in terms of improving government decision-making and increasing political participation, the fundamental goals of open government data. Also, I find it strange that the app developer, purportedly a proponent of open government data, would make users pay to access freely available information  (isn't government data supposed to be freely and openly accessible)?

On the other hand,  it is very cool that NYC Restaurant Scrutinizer found a way to incorporate such an enormous and serious concept such as open government data into the context of ordinary daily life. When considering society's pervasive political apathy, non-political uses of government data such as these may be seen as more relevant and useful  than those that seek to politically empower.
