In Big Data: Seizing Opportunities, Preserving Values, the Executive Office of the President discussed both the benefits and the more controversial aspects of predictive technology. On one hand, applications of predictive technology in the fields of preventative medicine and national security are an important means of identifying threats to the health and safety of the public at large. Large scale health data analysis, for instance, allows doctors and researchers to identify relevant trends in lifestyle, medical, and socioeconomic data, thereby improving patient care and preventing health risks  to future generations. Similarly, predictive technology may also be used to identify terrorist networks and provide warnings of impending national security threats. While the government has a legitimate interest in implementing this technology to further health and public safety interests, the application of this technology  compromises the constitutional interests of the individual. Law enforcement agencies are now using predictive technology to identify certain trends -- including age, geographic location, personality, and behavior -- that indicate an individual's propensity for criminal activity. This data is used to identify geographic areas that may necessitate increased police presence and predict which parolees are likely to reoffend and thus require increased supervision. The Chicago police department used this data to generate a list of 400 city residents likely to be involved in violent crime in the future. While increased supervision isn't a punishment per se, these "preventative punishment" methods are disturbing. By heightening suspicion towards an individual based solely on his or her behavior and demographic, it is akin to penalizing his or her mere existence. The pervasive monitoring of law enforcement creates a chilling effect on the First Amendment and diminishes the significance of the Fourth Amendment. In light of these concerns, I believe the current application of predictive technology to determine the potential criminal propensities of the individual goes beyond the scope of ethical permissibility. While I believe this technology may have great value in preventing mass atrocities, such as shooting sprees and terrorist attacks, Chicago law enforcement's use of the technology to indentify individuals likely to be involved in typical urban violent crime, such as drug trafficking, assault, and robbery, is not warranted. Unfortunately, it isn't possible to selectively apply predictive technology only to individuals likely to commit particularly egregious offenses. In order to indentify a  particular risk group, law enforcement must first aggregate the personal data of all individuals, whether innocent or suspicious. Defense of our Constitutional rights requires the complete rejection of preventative technology in crime prevention, whereas protection of our national and local security merits the use and expansion of preventative technology in law enforcement. It's difficult to identify a middle ground between these two extremes.
Froomkin's article, Government Data Breaches, complicates the issue of data misuse by demonstrating the absence of effective remedies for victims of data breaches. While I am very sympathetic towards these victims, as a government employee, I am relieved that recovery requires, at a minimum, a showing of 'deliberate indifference' rather than negligence. The government's outdated technology, coupled with human fallibility and its potential risks, and multiplied by a number representing the thousands of federal employees and contractors who have access to sensitive data, will result in the occasional accidental disclosure. I've admittedly forgotten to encrypt work emails containing (mostly my own) PII, but I'll definitely be more mindful in the future, knowing that a Bivens action against me is not a theoretical possibility. Froomkin also noted that an agency's failure to have an adequate policy reasonably calculated to prevent data breaches can demonstrate 'deliberate indifference', which is unsettling, since agency directives are almost always written broadly and with vague language. 
